Track 3. Owen Glyndwr. The last true Prince of Wales.
You are standing on almost the highest point of Glyndwr's way, one of three Welsh national
trails. The 135 mile route runs in a horseshoe shape and is completely contained in the county
of Powys. Owen Glyndwr, after which the trail is named, was the last native Welsh person
to hold the title Prince of Wales. His hero status was assured after an ultimately unsuccessful
but long running revolt against English rule of Wales at the start of the 15th century.
His revolution led to the liberation of North and Central Wales in 1401 and he was at nearby
Manedd Hyfgen to the west and he led his small army to the first major victory in the field
later that year. In response, King Henry IV issued anti-Welsh legislation designed
to re-establish English dominance in Wales. All it did though was push many more Welshmen
into rebellion. In 1408 however, nearby Harlech and Aberystwyth
castles had fallen to the English King and to avoid imprisonment he fled. Yestin Thomas,
community and wildlife officer for the Wildlife Trust, believes that like many Welsh folk
heroes he will return in the nation's hour of need.
Legend has it that he's still lying hidden somewhere up in the hills waiting for the
day that come the revolution Glyndwr will rise again and lead us all to defeat the English.
It's probably that he died up in the mountains but the romantics of it, being Welsh, it's
no, he's still there, you know, coming the revolution one day, you watch out you English,
you better watch his step, especially when you come into mid Wales.
Turn right and head down the track until you reach a wooden gate with a cattle grid to
its left. Do not cross the grid or go through the gate, this is your return route, but instead
follow the rutted track right. After a few yards you reach a small carpark with interpretation
panels. This is the Wildlife Trust Glass Lin Reserve Carpark. Listen to track 4 in front
of the Glass Lin Reserve interpretation panel.